= Sabrina

A library for manipulating GBA ROMs of a popular monster collection RPG series.
It is written entirely in Ruby and uses
{Chunky PNG}[https://github.com/wvanbergen/chunky_png], which is also a pure
Ruby library.

Compared to the many excellent GUI tools available, this library focuses on
non-interactive manipulation of ROM data. Key features include:
* Support for several automatically recognized base ROM types. Additional types
  can be supported by placing JSON files in the user's +.sabrina+ directory.
* Import and export sprite sheets to or from PNG files via
  {Chunky PNG}[https://github.com/wvanbergen/chunky_png]. The 256x64 format
  (front, shiny front, back, shiny back) compatible with tools such as
  G3HS[https://github.com/thekaratekid552/Secret-Tool] or A-Series is
  automatically recognized.
* Directly transfer data between two ROM files, bypassing the stage of opening
  several application windows or creating intermediary files on the HDD.
* Access to low-level read-and-write operations on ROMs through Bytestream
  objects, with support for LZ77[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/LZ77_and_LZ78]
  compression and encoding/decoding text strings.

Known issues:
* Either the Lz77 compressor or the image encoder has a problem with the monster
  number 360 some reason. Copying from another ROM still works fine (likely
  because it bypasses the encoding step and uses the data from the source ROM
  directly), but loading from PNG will result in garbled sprites for frames 3-4.

Currently missing features include:
* Support for Sapphire and LeafGreen.
* Support for additional data abstractions beyond sprite sheets and stats may be
  included depending on resources and feedback.
* Support for moves.
